README.md, before:

# Shopify App Template - Remix

This is a template for building a [Shopify app](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/getting-started) using the [Remix](https://remix.run) framework.

<!-- TODO: Uncomment this after we've started using the template in the CLI -->
<!-- Rather than cloning this repo, you can use your preferred package manager and the Shopify CLI with [these steps](#installing-the-template). -->

## Quick start

### Prerequisites

1. You must [download and install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) if you don't already have it.
2. You must [create a Shopify partner account](https://partners.shopify.com/signup) if you don’t have one.
3. You must create a store for testing if you don't have one, either a [development store](https://help.shopify.com/en/partners/dashboard/development-stores#create-a-development-store) or a [Shopify Plus sandbox store](https://help.shopify.com/en/partners/dashboard/managing-stores/plus-sandbox-store).

<!-- TODO Make this section about using @shopify/app once it's added to the CLI. -->

### Setup

If you used the CLI to create the template, you can skip this section.

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn install
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm install
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm install
```

### Local Development

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn dev
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm run dev
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm run dev
```

Press P to open the URL to your app. Once you click install, you can start development.

Local development is powered by [the Shopify CLI](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/tools/cli). It logs into your partners account, connects to an app, provides environment variables, updates remote config, creates a tunnel and provides commands to generate extensions.

### Authenticating and querying data

To authenticate and query data you can use the `shopify` const that is exported from `/app/shopify.server.js`:

```js
export async function loader({ request }) {
  const { admin } = await shopify.authenticate.admin(request);

  const response = await admin.graphql(`
    {
      products(first: 25) {
        nodes {
          title
          description
        }
      }
    }`);

  const {
    data: {
      products: { nodes },
    },
  } = await response.json();

  return json(nodes);
}
```

This template come preconfigured with examples of:

1. Setting up your Shopify app in [/app/shopify.server.js](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-template-remix/blob/main/app/shopify.server.js)
2. Querying data using Graphql. Please see: [/app/routes/app.\_index.jsx](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-template-remix/blob/main/app/routes/app._index.jsx).
3. Responding to mandatory webhooks in [/app/routes/webhooks.jsx](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-template-remix/blob/main/app/routes/webhooks.jsx)

Please read the [documentation for @shopify/shopify-app-remix](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@shopify/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-admin-requests) to understand what other API's are available.

## Deployment

### Application Storage

This template uses [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) to store session data, by default using an [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html) database.
The database is defined as a Prisma schema in `prisma/schema.prisma`.

This use of SQLite works in production if your app runs as a single instance.
The database that works best for you depends on the data your app needs and how it is queried.
You can run your database of choice on a server yourself or host it with a SaaS company.
Here’s a short list of databases providers that provide a free tier to get started:

| Database   | Type             | Hosters                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| MySQL      | SQL              | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-mysql), [Planet Scale](https://planetscale.com/), [Amazon Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/), [Google Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql) |
| PostgreSQL | SQL              | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-postgresql), [Amazon Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/), [Google Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres)                                   |
| Redis      | Key-value        | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-redis), [Amazon MemoryDB](https://aws.amazon.com/memorydb/)                                                                                                        |
| MongoDB    | NoSQL / Document | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-mongodb), [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database)                                                                                                  |

To use one of these, you can use a different [datasource provider](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/api-reference/prisma-schema-reference#datasource) in your `schema.prisma` file, or a different [SessionStorage adapter package](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-api-js/tree/main/docs/guides/session-storage.md).

### Build

Remix handles building the app for you, by running the command below with the package manager of your choice:

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn build
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm run build
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm run build
```

## Hosting

When you're ready to set up your app in production, you can follow [our deployment documentation](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/deployment/web) to host your app on a cloud provider like [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) or [Fly.io](https://fly.io/).

When you reach the step for [setting up environment variables](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/deployment/web#set-env-vars), you also need to set the variable `NODE_ENV=production`.

## Gotchas / Troubleshooting

### Database tables don't exist

If you get this error:

```
The table `main.Session` does not exist in the current database.
```

You need to create the database for Prisma. Run the `setup` script in `package.json` using your preferred package manager.

### Navigating/redirecting breaks an embedded app

Embedded Shopify apps must maintain the user session, which can be tricky inside an iFrame. To avoid issues:

1. Use `Link` from `@remix-run/react` or `@shopify/polaris`. Do not use `<a>`.
2. Use the `redirect` helper returned from `authenticate.admin`. Do not use `redirect` from `@remix-run/node`
3. Use `useSubmit` or `<Form/>` from `@remix-run/react`. Do not use a lowercase `<form/>`.

This only applies if you app is embedded, which it will be by default.

### Non Embedded

Shopify apps are best when they are embedded into the Shopify Admin. This template is configured that way. If you have a reason to not embed your please make 2 changes:

1. Change the `isEmbeddedApp` prop to false for the `AppProvider` in `/app/routes/app.jsx`
2. Remove any use of App Bridge APIs (`window.shopify`) from your code
3. Update the config for shopifyApp in `app/shopify.server.js`. Pass `isEmbeddedApp: false`

### OAuth goes into a loop when I change my app's scopes

If you change your app's scopes and authentication goes into a loop and fails with a message from Shopify that it tried too many times, you might have forgotten to update your scopes with Shopify.
To do that, you can run the `config push` CLI command.

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn shopify app config push
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm run shopify app config push
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm run shopify app config push
```

## Benefits

Shopify apps are built on a variety of Shopify tools to create a great merchant experience.

<!-- TODO: Uncomment this after we've updated the docs -->
<!-- The [create an app](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/getting-started/create) tutorial in our developer documentation will guide you through creating a Shopify app using this template. -->

The Remix app template comes with the following out-of-the-box functionality:

- [OAuth](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-admin-requests): Installing the app and granting permissions
- [GraphQL Admin API](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#using-the-shopify-admin-graphql-api): Querying or mutating Shopify admin data
- [REST Admin API](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#using-the-shopify-admin-rest-api): Resource classes to interact with the API
- [Webhooks](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-webhook-requests): Callbacks sent by Shopify when certain events occur
- [AppBridge](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/app-bridge): This template uses the next generation of the Shopify App Bridge library which works in unison with previous versions.
- [Polaris](https://polaris.shopify.com/): Design system that enables apps to create Shopify-like experiences

## Tech Stack

This template uses [Remix](https://remix.run). The following Shopify tools are also included to ease app development:

- [Shopify App Remix](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/blob/main/packages/shopify-app-remix/README.md) provides authentication and methods for interacting with Shopify APIs.
- [Shopify App Bridge](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/tools/app-bridge) allows your app to seamlessly integrate your app within Shopify's Admin.
- [Polaris React](https://polaris.shopify.com/) is a powerful design system and component library that helps developers build high quality, consistent experiences for Shopify merchants.
- [Webhooks](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-webhook-requests): Callbacks sent by Shopify when certain events occur
- [Polaris](https://polaris.shopify.com/): Design system that enables apps to create Shopify-like experiences

> **Note**: This template runs on JavaScript, but it's fully set up for [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).
> If you want to create your routes using TypeScript, we recommend removing the `noImplicitAny` config from [`tsconfig.json`](/tsconfig.json)

## Resources

- [Remix Docs](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1)
- [Shopify App Remix](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/blob/release-candidate/packages/shopify-app-remix/README.md)
- [Introduction to Shopify apps](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/getting-started)
- [App authentication](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/auth)
- [Shopify CLI](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/tools/cli)
- [App extensions](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/app-extensions/list)
- [Shopify Functions](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/functions)
- [Getting started with internationalizing your app](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/best-practices/internationalization/getting-started)

Commit message:

Add a gotcha for streaming responses

README.md, after:

# Shopify App Template - Remix

This is a template for building a [Shopify app](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/getting-started) using the [Remix](https://remix.run) framework.

<!-- TODO: Uncomment this after we've started using the template in the CLI -->
<!-- Rather than cloning this repo, you can use your preferred package manager and the Shopify CLI with [these steps](#installing-the-template). -->

## Quick start

### Prerequisites

1. You must [download and install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) if you don't already have it.
2. You must [create a Shopify partner account](https://partners.shopify.com/signup) if you don’t have one.
3. You must create a store for testing if you don't have one, either a [development store](https://help.shopify.com/en/partners/dashboard/development-stores#create-a-development-store) or a [Shopify Plus sandbox store](https://help.shopify.com/en/partners/dashboard/managing-stores/plus-sandbox-store).

<!-- TODO Make this section about using @shopify/app once it's added to the CLI. -->

### Setup

If you used the CLI to create the template, you can skip this section.

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn install
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm install
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm install
```

### Local Development

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn dev
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm run dev
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm run dev
```

Press P to open the URL to your app. Once you click install, you can start development.

Local development is powered by [the Shopify CLI](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/tools/cli). It logs into your partners account, connects to an app, provides environment variables, updates remote config, creates a tunnel and provides commands to generate extensions.

### Authenticating and querying data

To authenticate and query data you can use the `shopify` const that is exported from `/app/shopify.server.js`:

```js
export async function loader({ request }) {
  const { admin } = await shopify.authenticate.admin(request);

  const response = await admin.graphql(`
    {
      products(first: 25) {
        nodes {
          title
          description
        }
      }
    }`);

  const {
    data: {
      products: { nodes },
    },
  } = await response.json();

  return json(nodes);
}
```

This template come preconfigured with examples of:

1. Setting up your Shopify app in [/app/shopify.server.js](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-template-remix/blob/main/app/shopify.server.js)
2. Querying data using Graphql. Please see: [/app/routes/app.\_index.jsx](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-template-remix/blob/main/app/routes/app._index.jsx).
3. Responding to mandatory webhooks in [/app/routes/webhooks.jsx](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-template-remix/blob/main/app/routes/webhooks.jsx)

Please read the [documentation for @shopify/shopify-app-remix](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@shopify/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-admin-requests) to understand what other API's are available.

## Deployment

### Application Storage

This template uses [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) to store session data, by default using an [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html) database.
The database is defined as a Prisma schema in `prisma/schema.prisma`.

This use of SQLite works in production if your app runs as a single instance.
The database that works best for you depends on the data your app needs and how it is queried.
You can run your database of choice on a server yourself or host it with a SaaS company.
Here’s a short list of databases providers that provide a free tier to get started:

| Database   | Type             | Hosters                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| MySQL      | SQL              | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-mysql), [Planet Scale](https://planetscale.com/), [Amazon Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/), [Google Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql) |
| PostgreSQL | SQL              | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-postgresql), [Amazon Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/), [Google Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres)                                   |
| Redis      | Key-value        | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-redis), [Amazon MemoryDB](https://aws.amazon.com/memorydb/)                                                                                                        |
| MongoDB    | NoSQL / Document | [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/try/managed-databases-mongodb), [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database)                                                                                                  |

To use one of these, you can use a different [datasource provider](https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/api-reference/prisma-schema-reference#datasource) in your `schema.prisma` file, or a different [SessionStorage adapter package](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-api-js/tree/main/docs/guides/session-storage.md).

### Build

Remix handles building the app for you, by running the command below with the package manager of your choice:

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn build
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm run build
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm run build
```

## Hosting

When you're ready to set up your app in production, you can follow [our deployment documentation](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/deployment/web) to host your app on a cloud provider like [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) or [Fly.io](https://fly.io/).

When you reach the step for [setting up environment variables](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/deployment/web#set-env-vars), you also need to set the variable `NODE_ENV=production`.

## Gotchas / Troubleshooting

### Database tables don't exist

If you get this error:

```
The table `main.Session` does not exist in the current database.
```

You need to create the database for Prisma. Run the `setup` script in `package.json` using your preferred package manager.

### Navigating/redirecting breaks an embedded app

Embedded Shopify apps must maintain the user session, which can be tricky inside an iFrame. To avoid issues:

1. Use `Link` from `@remix-run/react` or `@shopify/polaris`. Do not use `<a>`.
2. Use the `redirect` helper returned from `authenticate.admin`. Do not use `redirect` from `@remix-run/node`
3. Use `useSubmit` or `<Form/>` from `@remix-run/react`. Do not use a lowercase `<form/>`.

This only applies if you app is embedded, which it will be by default.

### Non Embedded

Shopify apps are best when they are embedded into the Shopify Admin. This template is configured that way. If you have a reason to not embed your please make 2 changes:

1. Change the `isEmbeddedApp` prop to false for the `AppProvider` in `/app/routes/app.jsx`
2. Remove any use of App Bridge APIs (`window.shopify`) from your code
3. Update the config for shopifyApp in `app/shopify.server.js`. Pass `isEmbeddedApp: false`

### OAuth goes into a loop when I change my app's scopes

If you change your app's scopes and authentication goes into a loop and fails with a message from Shopify that it tried too many times, you might have forgotten to update your scopes with Shopify.
To do that, you can run the `config push` CLI command.

Using yarn:

```shell
yarn shopify app config push
```

Using npm:

```shell
npm run shopify app config push
```

Using pnpm:

```shell
pnpm run shopify app config push
```

### Using Defer & await for streaming responses

To test defer/await locally you'll need to use the Shopify CLI slightly differently:

1. First setup ngrok: https://ngrok.com/product/secure-tunnels
2. Create an ngrok tunnel on port 8080: `ngrok http 8080`.
3. Copy the forwarding address. This should be something like: `https://f355-2607-fea8-bb5c-8700-7972-d2b5-3f2b-94ab.ngrok-free.app`
4. In a separate terminal run `yarn shopify app dev --tunnel-url=TUNNEL_URL:8080` replacing `TUNNEL_URL` for the address you copied in step 3.

By default the CLI uses a cloudflare tunnel. Unfortunately it looks like cloudflare tunnels wait for the Response stream to finish, then sends one chunk.

This will not affect production, since tunnels are only for local development.

## Benefits

Shopify apps are built on a variety of Shopify tools to create a great merchant experience.

<!-- TODO: Uncomment this after we've updated the docs -->
<!-- The [create an app](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/getting-started/create) tutorial in our developer documentation will guide you through creating a Shopify app using this template. -->

The Remix app template comes with the following out-of-the-box functionality:

- [OAuth](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-admin-requests): Installing the app and granting permissions
- [GraphQL Admin API](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#using-the-shopify-admin-graphql-api): Querying or mutating Shopify admin data
- [REST Admin API](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#using-the-shopify-admin-rest-api): Resource classes to interact with the API
- [Webhooks](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-webhook-requests): Callbacks sent by Shopify when certain events occur
- [AppBridge](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/app-bridge): This template uses the next generation of the Shopify App Bridge library which works in unison with previous versions.
- [Polaris](https://polaris.shopify.com/): Design system that enables apps to create Shopify-like experiences

## Tech Stack

This template uses [Remix](https://remix.run). The following Shopify tools are also included to ease app development:

- [Shopify App Remix](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/blob/main/packages/shopify-app-remix/README.md) provides authentication and methods for interacting with Shopify APIs.
- [Shopify App Bridge](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/tools/app-bridge) allows your app to seamlessly integrate your app within Shopify's Admin.
- [Polaris React](https://polaris.shopify.com/) is a powerful design system and component library that helps developers build high quality, consistent experiences for Shopify merchants.
- [Webhooks](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/tree/main/packages/shopify-app-remix#authenticating-webhook-requests): Callbacks sent by Shopify when certain events occur
- [Polaris](https://polaris.shopify.com/): Design system that enables apps to create Shopify-like experiences

> **Note**: This template runs on JavaScript, but it's fully set up for [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).
> If you want to create your routes using TypeScript, we recommend removing the `noImplicitAny` config from [`tsconfig.json`](/tsconfig.json)

## Resources

- [Remix Docs](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1)
- [Shopify App Remix](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify-app-js/blob/release-candidate/packages/shopify-app-remix/README.md)
- [Introduction to Shopify apps](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/getting-started)
- [App authentication](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/auth)
- [Shopify CLI](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/tools/cli)
- [App extensions](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/app-extensions/list)
- [Shopify Functions](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/functions)
- [Getting started with internationalizing your app](https://shopify.dev/docs/apps/best-practices/internationalization/getting-started)
